---
layout: post
title:  "Amazon Machine Images "
date:   2021-05-07 06:52:45 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1> Amazon Machine Image (AMI) </h1>

<body>
<p>
An Amazon Machine Image (AMI) provides the information required to launch an instance. You must specify an AMI when you launch an instance. You can launch multiple instances from a single AMI when you need multiple instances with the same configuration. You can use different AMIs to launch instances when you need instances with different configurations.
<p>
  <h2>  Using an AMI </h2>
After you create and register an AMI, you can use it to launch new instances. (You can also launch instances from an AMI if the AMI owner grants you launch permissions.) You can copy an AMI within the same Region or to different Regions. When you no longer require an AMI, you can deregister it.
<p>
After you launch an instance from an AMI, you can connect to it. When you are connected to an instance, you can use it just like you use any other server. For information about launching, connecting, and using your instance, see Amazon EC2 instances.
<p>
You can launch an instance from an existing AMI, customize the instance, and then save this updated configuration as a custom AMI. Instances launched from this new custom AMI include the customizations that you made when you created the AMI.
The root storage device of the instance determines the process you follow to create an AMI. The root volume of an instance is either an Amazon EBS volume or an instance store volume. For more information about the root device volume
<p>
You can deregister an AMI when you have finished with it. After you deregister an AMI, it can’t be used to launch new instances. Existing instances launched from the AMI are not affected.


</body>
